# **_The Evolution/ MainBody Contents_**

Web 2.0 is what they called it. The evolution of web. Jay Adelson the CEO of Digg. He created online news. Digg is full of latest news from all over the world. The people decide what comes on the first page. People vote for the news and that comes on the front page. Chad Hurley Co-founder & CEO of YouTube. The television industry found YouTube threatening. Later in 2006, Google bought YouTube for 1.65 billion$. Mark Zuckerberg 22 yrs. old. Boy founded Facebook. The concept was that the people around us matter and their opinion matters. They tried to map relations. The chief editor of New York times told that he found Mark really young and was just flavor of the month but a yr. later New York times shares were going down hitting the floor whereas Facebook was going through the roof. David Weekly MP3 Pioneer Thought of making MP3 available online and downloadable, as going to store to find a record was difficult and time consuming. After he launched his MP3 available online, he got call from his college that his dorm room computer was consuming 70-80% of the entire university’s bandwidth. That was the amount of downloads that were happening within a few days. Later Shawn Fanning found Napster. He loved music and wanted to find a way that would make it possible to share music. That led to creation of Napster. It used peer-to-peer architecture. I was so easy to use, just type the song name and that would be available to download free. In one week it had 10,000 downloads. In Oct 1993, it started using 70-75% of university’s bandwidth. In just a time of 4 months there were over a million downloads. People could download and talk to other people and discuss music as well. Hilary Rosen the head of record Industry was not so happy about Napster. She contacted Napster and they were told to stop piracy of music. However, all the students on campuses were already downloading and sharing music. Later famous musicians like Metallica and Dr.Drew found out about this and were not really happy about it too. 300000 people who were already using Napster. People were smashing Metallica records. Napster bloomed after that even more. Hilary and RIAA filed a lawsuit against Napster for copyrights. July 2001 Napster had to be shut down immediately. It encouraged Steve jobs to create iTunes, which charged 99cents per song. YouTube has become a sensation within a few years. Viacom had filed a billion dollar lawsuit against YouTube for copyrighted material available on the site. YouTube promised to remove all the material that was claimed copyrights. However, with googles help YouTube got out of it. Internet opens new opportunity to upload their own content, and show their creativity. People become active in the new two-way web. People displayed their talent, sold their stuff, etc. Fred Wilson, venture capitalist wrote many articles about how people could contribute back and be a participant in the web experience and have impact this is what Web 2.0 is all about. MySpace came and fell quickly. Spring 2005, it reached roof and had 27 million registered users. Summer 2005 had a mySpace account. Modock bought Myspace for 650million dollar. Facebook started small. 2/3rd of Harvard started using within weeks and later school colleges and companies started requesting access it grew from 10 million to 50 million users and doubles every 6 months. He wanted to create an ultimate relationships map. He wanted to create social Graph. There was a competition of Facebook and mySpace.Craglaist had all the news of the world places to buy, sell, jobs, services, shops everything and it made the newspaper bosses uncomfortable. Jimmy Whales Founder of Wikipedia made an online encyclopedia.
